content/intro.md, before:

---
posttitle: Introduction
title: intro
date: 2021-03-19T13:10:27.587Z
---
I have started this blog due to an observation I had recently. 

Why do we write code? To make some software, yes, but at a fundamental level, we are instructing the computer to do some thing for us.

In the same vein, why do we speak? At a fundamental level, to make others aware of our needs or to order something. Again, instructing others to do something for us.

Why does one try to get better at programming? To code efficient software and get the best results.

So shouldn't one also try to get better at communicating, which is another term for writing or speaking? That's exactly the reason I am starting this blog: to get my thoughts clear, improve my writing and in turn improve my communication skills.

I believe if you can be good at both communicating and coding, then you become unstoppable in the current climate. 

### I will be writing whatever I find worth sharing, be that something I learned, something related to business, programming, books, movies, or anything.

Commit message:

seo changes, added a description field to config, and changed title to h1

content/intro.md, after:

---
posttitle: Introduction
title: intro
description: I will be writing whatever I find worth sharing, be that something I learned, something related to business, programming, books, movies, or anything.
date: 2021-03-19T13:10:27.587Z
---
I have started this blog due to an observation I had recently. 

Why do we write code? To make some software, yes, but at a fundamental level, we are instructing the computer to do some thing for us.

In the same vein, why do we speak? At a fundamental level, to make others aware of our needs or to order something. Again, instructing others to do something for us.

Why does one try to get better at programming? To code efficient software and get the best results.

So shouldn't one also try to get better at communicating, which is another term for writing or speaking? That's exactly the reason I am starting this blog: to get my thoughts clear, improve my writing and in turn improve my communication skills.

I believe if you can be good at both communicating and coding, then you become unstoppable in the current climate. 

### I will be writing whatever I find worth sharing, be that something I learned, something related to business, programming, books, movies, or anything.
